---
title: "Investigation of representation of accidents in car-following models"
collection: academics
type: "Course project, CEE 551 Traffic Science"
# permalink: /academics/2015-spring-teaching-1
venue: "University of Michigan"
date: 2022-12-13
location: "Ann Arbor, MI"
---

This is the term project for the CEE 551 Traffic Science course at the University of Michigan, taught by [Prof. Henry Liu](https://cee.engin.umich.edu/people/liu-henry/).
Together with collaborator Zhaoming Zeng, we investigated the representation of accidents by different car-following models and the performance of different car-following models in the evaluation of traffic safety.

## Project Report Abstract

It has become more commonplace for researchers and industries to utilize microscopic traffic
simulators to evaluate the efficiency and safety of road designs and assisted or autonomous
vehicle control systems. As a result, it is also ever more important for the underlying car-
following models of such simulators to accurately represent the behavior of both autonomous
vehicles and human-driven ones, especially under abnormal, near-accident situations. However,
even given the increasing complexity of rules-based, analytical models and the emergence of
novel machine learning and data-based car-following algorithms, not all such models may be up
to this task of accurately reflecting traffic crash probabilities and replicating near-crash scenarios
in the real world.

We will investigate this issue from the following different perspectives. Firstly, we shall
demonstrate that even car-following models that do not account for driver miscues or high-
risk scenarios (“accident-free") can also produce accidents in simulations, using arithmetic
calculations with the Intelligent Driver Model (IDM). We shall then review various ways in
the literature to modify traditional, rules-based, accident-free models to account for high-risk
or crash situations, as well as how to calibrate such modifications, using the Gipps model as
an example. Lastly, we will turn to more novel, data-based models that utilize machine learning
and neural networks to predict vehicle trajectories. We shall evaluate their primary characteristics
and drawback in modeling high-risk or accident riving scenarios using the example of a Long
Short-Term Memory (LSTM) model, and provide suggestions on improving the capabilities of
data-driven models in the safety evaluation of car-following behavior.

> Please reach out to me if you are interested in reading the full report.

<!-- ### [Download the report for this project](https://web.stanford.edu/~peli/files/CEE551_Project-1.pdf) -->
